docs/exporter.md, before:

# Custom Exporters

As well as custom importers a validator ruleset will often require that the generated output file and
log file be saved to a location other than the local file system.
 To save to such locations a custom exporter is required.
 
A custom exporter is a simple `JavaScript` plug-in to the validator that encapsulates the logic for
 placing a file on the local file system in an alternative location such as into a database or to
  a service such as S3.

## 1.0. Overview

A custom exporter is a `JavaScript` (ES6+) class that is dynamically loaded by the validator and is used to
export a file from the local file system. The class must have two publicly visible methods, a constructor
and a method named `exportFile` which takes a file name as input.

## 2.0. Methods

The exporter class can have any number of methods to implement it's required functionality but at a minimum
 requires a constructor and an `exportFile` method.
 
### 2.1. constructor(config)

The constructor must exist and is called with a single argument, the configuration object for the exporter
as defined in the parent [ruleset] and possibly modified by a ruleset [override](ruleset#3.0.-Overrides).
The constructor should save this config object for use by the `importFile` method.

The `config` object should include any information necessary to successfully export a file from the local 
file system. This information should include the remote filename and may also include URLs,
credentials, etc. (The `config` exists in a readable file, the ruleset file, so if private credentials
are required it is the responsibility of the author of the exporter to obfuscate credentials if necessary
to maintain privacy.)

### 2.2. exportFile(sourceFileName)

`exportFile()` takes a three arguments, the fully qualified name of the local file system file that
the exporter should export, the ID of the run - a unique string identifying the current run of the
ruleset - and the run's error log in a JavaScript object. The remote, destination file should be defined by the
`config` object passed to the constructor.

The `exportFile()` method may write the error log in any manner it chooses. For example the `errorLog`
could be passed to [JSON.stringify()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify)
to convert it to a string that can then be written to a file.

It should return a [Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
which exports the file calling `resolve()` when the file has been successfully written to the remote
location and `reject()`, with a description, when an error occurs.
 
## 3.0. Example

This simple example of a custom exporter copies a file, defined in `config` to the remote location.

```javascript
const fs = require('fs-extra');
const path = require("path");

class LocalCopyExport {
	constructor(config) {
		this.config = config;
	}

	exportFile(sourceFileName, runId, errorLog) {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
            if(!this.config.file) {
                reject('No target file name.');
                return;
            }

            if(fileName) {
                const targetFileName = path.resolve(this.config.file);

                fs.copySync(sourceFileName, targetFileName);
				resolve();
			}
        });
    }
}

module.exports = LocalCopyExport;
```

[ruleset]: ruleset.md

Commit message:

Updated the docs to encoding information.

docs/exporter.md, after:

# Custom Exporters

As well as custom importers a validator ruleset will often require that the generated output file and
log file be saved to a location other than the local file system.
 To save to such locations a custom exporter is required.
 
A custom exporter is a simple `JavaScript` plug-in to the validator that encapsulates the logic for
 placing a file on the local file system in an alternative location such as into a database or to
  a service such as S3.

## 1.0. Overview

A custom exporter is a `JavaScript` (ES6+) class that is dynamically loaded by the validator and is used to
export a file from the local file system. The class must have two publicly visible methods, a constructor
and a method named `exportFile` which takes a file name as input.

## 2.0. Methods

The exporter class can have any number of methods to implement it's required functionality but at a minimum
 requires a constructor and an `exportFile` method.
 
### 2.1. constructor(config)

The constructor must exist and is called with a single argument, the configuration object for the exporter
as defined in the parent [ruleset] and possibly modified by a ruleset [override](ruleset#3.0.-Overrides).
The constructor should save this config object for use by the `importFile` method.

The `config` object should include any information necessary to successfully export a file from the local 
file system. This information should include the remote filename and may also include URLs,
credentials, etc. (The `config` exists in a readable file, the ruleset file, so if private credentials
are required it is the responsibility of the author of the exporter to obfuscate credentials if necessary
to maintain privacy.)

Similarly to rules the `config` object for the exporter is updated with some useful properties. See
[this document](ruleConfig.md) for more information.

### 2.2. exportFile(sourceFileName)

`exportFile()` takes three arguments, the fully qualified name of the local file system file that
the exporter should export, the ID of the run - a unique string identifying the current run of the
ruleset - and the run's error log in a JavaScript object. The remote, destination file should be defined by the
`config` object passed to the constructor. The encoding for the exported file is in the `config.encoding`
property.

The `exportFile()` method may write the error log in any manner it chooses. For example the `errorLog`
could be passed to [JSON.stringify()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify)
to convert it to a string that can then be written to a file.

It should return a [Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
which exports the file calling `resolve()` when the file has been successfully written to the remote
location and `reject()`, with a description, when an error occurs.
 
## 3.0. Example

This simple example of a custom exporter copies a file, defined in `config` to the remote location.

```javascript
const fs = require('fs-extra');
const path = require("path");

class LocalCopyExport {
	constructor(config) {
		this.config = config;
	}

	exportFile(sourceFileName, runId, errorLog) {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
            if(!this.config.file) {
                reject('No target file name.');
                return;
            }

            if(fileName) {
                const targetFileName = path.resolve(this.config.file);

                fs.copySync(sourceFileName, targetFileName);
				resolve();
			}
        });
    }
}

module.exports = LocalCopyExport;
```

[ruleset]: ruleset.md
